'\" t
.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2017 by Delphix. All rights reserved.
.\"
.Dd Mar 10, 2017
.Dt BOOTCFG 1M
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm bootcfg
.Nd utility for managing zfs nextboot configuration
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Cm bootcfg
.Ar pool
.Nm
.Cm bootcfg
.Op Fl C
.Ar pool
.Nm
.Cm bootcfg
.Op Fl R
.Op Fl d Ar filesystem
.Op Fl c Ar maxboot
.Op Fl o Ar opts
.Ar pool
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
command manages the
.Xr zfs 1M
nextboot configuration. This configuration is used to cause the system to boot
into an alternate root environment the next time the system reboots, or
some fixed number of boots in the future.  It can also provide limited
arguments to the bootloader when the alternate root environment is
selected.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width "-C"
.It Fl R
Resets the boot count of the nextboot configuration.  This is only relevant
if the nextboot configuration is set and has a non-zero
.Sy maxboot
count. When combined with other flags, it is a no-op.
.Nm
.It Fl C
Clears the nextboot configuration. Normal boot procedures will be followed
on all subsequent boots, until a new configuration is set. It cannot be
combined with other flags.
.Nm
.It Fl d Ar dataset
Sets the nextboot configuration to boot from the specified dataset. Also
resets the boot count.
.Nm
.It Fl c Ar maxboot
Sets the nextboot configuration to activate after a fixed number of boot
attempts. Valid values are any non-negative integer; note that 1 and 0 have
the same effect. Also resets the boot count.
.Nm
.It Fl o Ar property Ns = Ns Ar value
Sets environment variables to be passed to the bootloader when the nextboot
configuration is used. Currently, the only implemented properties are
.Sy console
which can be set to any valid serial console name, and
.Sy fstype .
This option causes the dataset booted into to be interpreted as a zfs
or ufs filesystem, depending on which argument is passed. ZFS is the
default.  Also resets the boot count.
.El
.Sh "SEE ALSO"
.Xr beadm (1M)
